pixiecore: add page (#6094)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/pixiecore.md

# pixiecore

> > A tool to manage network booting of machines.

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
> Tool to manage booting machines from the network.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't know which one is more accurate, but I think the second variant is more confusing, since it sounds like you manage "booting machines" which are in the network. (Or is this indented?)

Reviewer: Ah, ok. What about this then?
```suggestion
> Tool to manage network booting of machines.
```

Reviewer 2: Sounds more tldr-ish 👍🏽

> > Pixiecore is a tool to manage network booting of machines

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Pixiecore is a tool to manage network booting of machines.
```

> > Pixiecore is a tool to manage network booting of machines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> A tool to manage network booting of machines.
```
@bl-ue what do you think

Don't commit this until others have responded.

Reviewer 4: Yeah I kinda like that one because it doesn't duplicate "pixicore," but other than that they're equivalent and I don't have much of an opinion.

Reviewer 3: if a user has entered tldr pixiecore they know what they have searched so its pointless to include it

> > More information: <https://github.com/google/netboot/tree/master/pixiecore>.

Reviewer 3: Im not too sure about this URL

Author: Surprising though it is, it does appear to be the official home for Pixiecore.

Reviewer 3: It seems to automatically direct here instead.

https://github.com/danderson/netboot/tree/master/pixiecore

Author: Huh… yes… it's the address I thought I copy-pasted. Let me fix.

> - Boot with netboot.xyz on the same network

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Boot with netboot.xyz on the same network.
```

> - Boot with netboot.xyz on the same network:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Boot with `netboot.xyz` on the same network:
```
I don't have any idea what this command does. Probably also because I don't know anything about that topic. However, is there any chance this could be explained a little bit more?

Reviewer: Also, which machine does this boot? I'm assuming that it's not the one you're entering the command on.....

Author: Hi @marchersimon  @sbrl , sorry I didn't reply earlier.

Pixiecore is a PXE boot server: it serves a bootable image. Then any machine on the network which chooses to boot from the network (typically you would choose this option in the boot menu) would load that image and boot with it.

[Netboot.xyz](https://netboot.xyz/) is a bootable image which consists essentially in a menu that lets you choose and download a bootable image from the internet (be it an Ubuntu installer, an RHEL installer, etc… or a diagnostic image).

If you can suggest pithy ways of making this one line more precise, I'm all for it, but I find it difficult myself.

Reviewer 2: So you execute that command on the server right? How about: "Create a PXE boot server which provides a `netboot.xyz` boot image"? Or am I wrong here?

Author: Maybe “Starts a PXE […]” would be better? Other that this, sounds good to me.

Author: (I just pushed the “Starts” version, let me know if this is fine)

> - Start a PXE boot server which provides a `netboot.xyz` boot image:

Reviewer 4: Maybe it could be even more clarified.
```suggestion
- Start a PXE boot server which provides a boot image from the `netboot.xyz` server:
```

Author: netboot.xyz is really one image. Not sure this would quite fit?

Reviewer 2: Then I'd keep the original. I think, even if you misinterpret `netboot.xyz` as a file, it wouldn't be that bad.

Reviewer 4: Oh I see. Definitely ignore this then.

> `pixiecore quick xyz --dhcp-no-bind`

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about the `quick xyz`. I assume `quick` is an argument and `xyz` a variable, but it also seems to be a file extention.

Author: They are both arguments, `xyz` is a reference to the [netboot.xyz](https://netboot.xyz/) website.

Reviewer 2: Ah, now I get it. I assume `quick` is optional or can be replaced with something else. Can you also replace `xyz` with something else? If not, just apply the first change.
```suggestion
- Boot with `netboot.xyz` on the same network:

`pixiecore {{quick}} xyz --dhcp-no-bind`
```
(The `{{ }}` tells the client to hightlight that part. We do this for everything you have to put something in).

Also, I `netboot.xyz` looks like a file. I think that might be confusing.

Author: Yes, `xyz` could be replaced by `ubuntu`, or `fedora` for instance. Let me apply the suggestion.

> `pixiecore {{quick}} {{xyz}} --dhcp-no-bind`

Reviewer 4: If `xyz` is a dummy value, replace it with something else, because it's likely to be confused with `netboot.xyz`, where the `xyz` is **not** a dummy value.

Author: It's very much not a dummy value. This is precisely the line you are supposed to write. Does it mean that I used the `{{…}}` syntax wrong?

Reviewer 2: That depends if it's the only value `pixiecore` accepts. Could you also specify a different server you want to get you image from?

Reviewer 4: Oh, if you have to write `xyz`, then remove the token syntax (`{{}}`).  If it's one of a list of choices, then do `{{xyz|opt1|opt2|etc.}}`.

I'm guessing that the `xyz` is for `netboot.xyz`?

Author: Yes. For instance, here are a bunch of valid pixiecore commands:

```
pixiecore quick xyz
pixiecore quick ubuntu
pixiecore quick fedora
pixiecore boot <some more complicated but more flexible syntaxe>
pixiecode api <something even more complicated that I don't actually know anything about>
```

Author: @bl-ue it's one of a choice. But `xyz` (which, indeed, stands for netboot.xyz) is sort of the generic goto thing since it will let you chain into an arbitrary image after a computer PXE boots. So I think this particular command line is the one you'd want to appear for a quick copy-paste.

I'm being a bit thick, here, evidently, sorry about that. Hopefully we'll figure this out, though.

Reviewer 2: How about we write the first example specifically for `netboot.xyz` and add a second one for `ubuntu` maybe just to show that it's possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`pixiecore {{quick}} xyz --dhcp-no-bind`

- Start a new PXE boot server which provides a `ubuntu` boot image
```
(Or is it `an ubuntu`?)

Reviewer 2: Also, is there maybe some kind of `pixiecore --list` command to get a list of all options for this?

Author: I think it's _an Ubuntu_.

`pixiecore  quick --help` gives the full list.

Reviewer 2: Then we sould also include an example for that.

Author: So, maybe we'd like something like:
```suggestion
`pixiecore {{quick}} xyz --dhcp-no-bind`

- List predefined images:

`pixiecore quick --help`
```

Author: I applied your version. Made a tiny tweak to spell Ubuntu as a noun.
